Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we're going to bevel a vertex what does that mean
exactly.
Well it means that we can take an individual vertex and we can create a whole new face from it's like
we have done here.
This is going to be incredibly useful when it comes to our finger holes because it allows able us to
create the necessary geometry for them.
Okay.
So we have a default cube in front of us here.
Now we could practice it with that shape but let's go for one that we're familiar with at the moment.
Let's load in our Ico sphere once that's loaded in.
I'm gonna go tap into edit mode and select an individual vertex and if we go to the vertex menu we see
the shortcut key is control and V to bring up this menu and then bevel vertices which is the operation
we want will give us ah ha.
There we go.
A new face from an existing vertex.
Now that is pretty cool but does it stop there.
Because we can just go go and do our challenge now and add in three holes.
No not quite.
I do want to show you the operator panel that comes along with this.
So we've got the amount here that changes the amount of that levelling of the vertex we do we have segments
and when you start using segments you think oh well that's that's a cool shape doesn't help us in this
case but that is pretty cool.
But then we start adjusting the profiling you realize oh look at that if we just it just right we get
ourselves a there we go sort of a circle.
Now the problem with this is that it creates extra geometry locally not over the entire model but locally
which changes how these faces work.
And I'm pretty certain if you were to do this and let's say you turn the segments up all the way and
manage to adjust the profile so it was indeed circular which is, that's more like it.
You think Yeah that's good.
But the issue is the topology is wrong.
The layout of the new generated geometry is just not right for a hole that we are going to put our fingers
into.
It would essentially work but it's just not right in this case.
And I think it will cause a lot of issues.
So my recommendation and we'll discuss in a future lecture coming up why this is a bad thing but we'll
leave it to there is to just leave it as a segment of one then the overall topology remains consistent.
We're not adding in a load of detail around a small place on our model which can cause us issues later
on if we're not careful.
Now there are lots of other options down here we're not going to go through them at the moment but with
the knowledge that you've now got you'll be well-placed to create the three faces that we're going to
need in order to create the holes for our fingers and thumb.
Okay.
So your challenge.
Quite simple one here.
I'd like you to go to your bowling ball and bevel three vertices ready to create our holes. Pause the video
now and give that to go. Okay everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and bevel these three vertices. Okay,
So I'm going to go ahead here and open up my bowling ball looking good so far.
Now one of the things to work out is where to place these finger holes.
So I'm going to mark out here where those pentagons are because there going to be useful for my guidance.
OK.
So that's looking good there.
I think I'm going to use this vertex, this vertex and this one down here.
I don't know if they're going to be slightly too close so though that one that one and that one let's
just go control shift and B  on all of those and see if that's going to make sense.
Actually, Yeah but that looks pretty good when I'm just looking at my other screen here.
Those two finger holes are pretty close together as they are normally I'm just gonna get rid of the
operator panel.
I think that overall that's a good proportion as well when it comes of the size.
Yeah I'm liking that.
Those are all done.
So that's nice.
It seems nice and straightforward.
This is one of these simple challenges but of course as there is lots to think about because you can
place these in multiple locations and they'll look slightly different.
Perhaps you've gone for a for it to be here and here and here it's more of an equal actual triangle.
Well if you look at your reference material I would have done that if I hadn't got my reference material.
I've added that two in here and then I'd have had one that looks like this and it turns out though that
would have been wrong.
So this is why reference import material itself is really important.
So there we go.
Mine are all set up ready to make our finger holes.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.